W-21862451: omni first draft dm (#402)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/exp-alerts-configure-notifications.adoc

> = Configure Notifications for Alerts

Reviewer: I don't see anything in this topic on how/where to configure notifications for alerts (i.e., go to Notifications > Settings, then set up Slack and specify notification channels).

Reviewer: Be specific and say "set up alerts in Anypoint Platform then configure notifications in EME".

Reviewer: Link to the slack setup topic.

Author: @glenn-rodgers-sf  can you take a look at these comments?

> Route API and runtime alerts from Anypoint Platform into channels your team monitors, such as email, Slack, or ticketing integrations your administrator configured. Connect alerts to the enhanced experience so responders can jump directly from a signal into *Portfolio* or *Observability*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use notifications to route API and runtime alerts from Anypoint Platform into channels your team monitors, such as email, Slack, or ticketing integrations your administrator configured. Connect alerts to the enhanced experience so responders can navigate directly from a notification into *Portfolio* or *Observability*.
```

Reviewer: "signal": Is this just a new term for notification?

> Delivery channels and alert types depend on API Manager, Runtime Manager, and any add-on connectors your organization purchased. You configure the subscription side in those products; the enhanced experience surfaces links and context when your entry path integrates them.

Reviewer: Is purchased the right word here? Configured? Available in your organization?

+
--
** API Manager: Manage API Alerts
** Runtime Manager: Manage Alerts
--
+
For more information, see xref:exp-home-start.adoc#permissions[Enhanced Experience Permissions].

== Alert Configuration

* Who receives alerts
+
Assign viewers or managers for API alerts in API Manager and for runtime alerts in Runtime Manager.
* Severity and routing
+
Map critical alerts to high-priority channels and informational alerts to lower-noise destinations to reduce noise for your team.
* Deep links
+
When your organization uses Slack or another integrated client, follow notifications back into the enhanced experience using the shortcuts your administrator enabled.

Find detailed steps in the 
xref:runtime-manager::alerts-on-runtime-manager.adoc[Runtime Manager alerts] and 
xref:api-manager::add-api-alert-task.adoc[API Manager instance alerts] documentation.

== Relate Alerts to Portfolio Work

When an alert references a service you govern in the enhanced experience, open the service from *Portfolio* and review *Monitoring*, *Policies*, and *Instances* together.
xref:exp-services-monitoring.adoc[Monitoring] explains how service-level signals relate to organization-wide observability.

> == Permissions Overview

Reviewer: Remove this section
